- [Instructor] When we need our own custom processing logic,
spring batch allows us to create
a custom item processor implementation.
The logic within an item processor
often is used to transform items
to meet business requirements.
Let's take a look at how we can implement
our own custom item processor
to transform an order for H+ Sports
into an order that includes
some tracking information regarding a shipment.
So you'll notice within the working files for this lesson,
I've added a new POJO.
And this POJO is the tracked order POJO.
And it extends our order objects so it has all those fields,
but it does include two additional pieces of information.
One is the tracking number.,
And then another is a Boolean that indicates whether
or not the tracked order is going to receive free shipping.
We're going to take a look at how we can create
an item processor implementation
that will transform an order into a tracked order.
To get started, let's head over to our job configuration.
And we're going to modify
the configuration of our chunk base step.
Currently that step is using the order
validating item processor.
And we're going to remove the call to that method.
And we're going to add our own call
for the tracked order item processor.
And we'll just create that method stub.
And then we can go ahead
and add the method to our configuration.
And you'll see that it is placed below our chunk base step.
Now before we go any further, we need to modify
the configuration of our chunk base step,
specifically the generic type arguments of the chunk.
We're going to be receiving an order as input,
but we're no longer going to be outputting an order
from our chunk base step.
Instead, it's going to be a tracked order.
So we'll need to modify that configuration of the chunk.
And that's going to mean we'll need to modify the signature
of our item processor.
So let's go ahead and change that.
And then we're also going to have to modify our item writer.
So let's go modify the writer.
In order to output a tracked order,
we'll need to also change our builder
and our Jackson Json object marshaller, okay.
So everything is converted over to use
the appropriate generic type arguments.
Now let's grab the item processor configuration,
and we'll add it to the top of our class.
And just like the others, we're going to define
this item processor as a beam.
And we'll switch over to make this method public.
And then within this method,
we're going to create a new instance
of a tracked order item processor.
And I'm just creating a stub constructor for that object.
And we can go ahead hit Control + one.
that's going to allow us to create that type.
And once we get this dialog, you'll see it's selected
the item processor interface for us.
And here's where
we can build out our own custom item processor.
You'll notice that the interface is generically typed
with the appropriate input of order,
the appropriate output of tracked order.
And then we have to define this single process method
that inputs an order, and it returns a tracked order.
So it's up to us to do that conversion.
So let's start out.
We're going to create an instance of a tracked order.
And you'll see that we have a constructor
for the tracked order
that accepts an argument of type order.
And what it does, it just copies all of the fields
from the order over to our tracked order.
And then specifically for the tracking,
we're going to be concerned
with setting the tracking number.
So we can use a UUID.
And we can just generate a random one,
convert it to a string and set that on our tracked order.
And then from our processor,
we'll go ahead and return that tracked order.
So you can see the transformation occurring right here.
We're moving from the order item as input,
doing some transformation,
and then returning a tracked order, okay.
So if we navigate back to our application,
we can go ahead and save the changes.
And now we're going to navigate over to the terminal,
and we'll go ahead and launch our job with the script.
This will cause the application to package
and we will then run our job.
You'll remember that we were using
the Jason file item writer.
So our output should have been written
to the data directory as Jason output.
Here we see the file, and if we inspect that file,
you'll notice that we now have a tracking number
included on our order.
And that's because we were able
to perform that transformation
using our custom item processor.